---
layout: md_page
title: Nengo Code of Conduct

footerClasses: gradient-bottom
---

## Why have a code of conduct?

This Code of Conduct is designed to help all of us build a pleasant,
productive, and fearless community. The purpose of the Code of Conduct
is not to burden the team with a bunch of needless rules, or to give us
a punishment mechanism for people "being bad," or even to correct things
that have been wrong in the past. We are striving to make our team a
great group of people to work with, especially for those people who have
faced more adverse working environments in the past.

## Social rules

### No feigning surprise

Don't act surprised when people say they don't know something, or ask a
question that has what you feel is an "obvious" answer. This applies to
both technical things ("I can't believe you don't know what the stack
is!") and non-technical things ("You don't know who RMS is?!").
Feigning surprise or pointing out the "obviousness" of something has no
social or educational benefit; these reactions are usually an attempt to
make the writer feel better about themselves and the reader feel worse.
Even when that's not the intention, it's almost always the effect. This
rule is tightly coupled to our belief in the importance of people
feeling comfortable saying "I don't know" and "I don't understand."

### No backseat driving

If a thread is working through a problem, you shouldn't join the thread,
drop an advice bomb, then leave. This can lead to the "too many cooks"
problem, but more importantly, it can be rude and disruptive to
half-participate in a conversation. This isn't to say you shouldn't
help, offer advice, or join conversations---on the contrary, we
encourage all those things. Rather, it means that when you want to help
out or work with others, you should fully engage and not just interject
sporadically. If you want to show support for an idea presented in a
thread, consider using a simple thumbs up emoji reaction rather than
stating the same point a different way. If you feel that there is a
different approach that could be taken, but you do not have the time or
motivation to implement that approach yourself, make a note to yourself
to explore that approach when you have time instead of putting that
burden on someone else.

## Time

Be respectful of other people: their time, their location, and other
considerations of a distributed team.

Be on time to meetings. Read the meeting agenda ahead of time, and if
something requires your input and you cannot make the meeting, tell the
meeting organizer.

Resist the temptation to have local-only meetings when remote teammates
should be involved. Take the discussion to the forum, a group hangout,
Github issue, or dev meeting as appropriate.

Keep in mind that what you write once will be read by several people.
Writing a short message means people can understand the conversation as
efficiently as possible. When a long explanation is necessary, consider
adding a summary. Try to bring new arguments to a conversation so that
each message adds something unique to the thread, keeping in mind that
the rest of the thread sill contains the other messages that have
already been made.

Try to stay on topic, especially in discussions that are already fairly
large. If a discussion brings to mind some related but separate issue,
please start a separate discussion for it. Everyone that is
participating in an existing discussion will naturally wish to respond
to your comment. If it is a separate discussion, each person can choose
to join that discussion or spend their time some other way.

## Giving feedback

Give constructive, not critical feedback. Feedback is negatively
critical when it focuses on something wrong with someone or something
they produced, especially without any mention of ways to make their
behavior or their product better. Critical feedback on work often looks
like "you don't write enough tests" or "your code quality isn't good
enough." Personal criticism can be more severe and often looks like "you
should be less judgmental" or "you are a burden because you ask too many
questions."

Constructive feedback is more about how a person can do better rather
than what they are doing wrong. If you want someone to do something
better, you should tell them what better looks like. Ask a question to
get a discussion rolling, to gain context, and then if you see room for
improvement give declarative feedback to that effect. This creates an
environment where people understand what success looks like instead of
just feeling like they are unsuccessful.

Just as you shouldn't interact with people poorly in person, do not
interact poorly through code or code review. Assume that the other
person is smart and capable, even if they don't have the same expertise
as you. Go about your review under the assumption that the decisions
were made for a reason, not in a vacuum. Ask about circumstances if
you're confused or uncertain. Be pragmatic, ask for context, don't
filibuster, don't block on style not explicitly covered in our style
guides. Fight for your way if you think it's right, but not only to be
right.

## Receiving feedback

While the reviewer must do their best to be constructive in their
feedback, so must the reader do their best to read a comment as
attempting to be constructive and not personally critical---as hard as
this may be when you are passionate about what you do. Assume that the
reviewer is trying to help and is not trying to make you feel bad.

You are not your products. It is important to realize that it's better
to find errors in review than in production and recognize that your work
fits into a larger whole.

A review is not a test that you must pass to be accepted by the
community. By creating something to be reviewed, you are already a
member of our community.

## Enactment

If somebody requests that you stop a certain behavior (even if said
behavior is not explicitly covered in this document), you are expected
to comply immediately. Complying is not an admission of guilt or of a
transgression; rather, it is an acknowledgment that further discussion
of what caused the request is probably a good idea. Work with the other
party to fix the situation. If the miscommunication happened in writing,
move the discussion to a richer medium like a video chat. Use the
opportunity to build stronger relationships and better the team.

Enforcement of the Code of Conduct is essential. If there is no
enforcement, then the Code of Conduct becomes a feel-good document
without value. Individuals should feel empowered to call out violations
publicly or privately. Maintainers of Nengo projects are available
to help moderate, address concerns, and solve violations.

## Notes

This Code of Conduct is primarily based on the [DigitalOcean engineering
code of conduct](https://github.com/digitalocean/engineering-code-of-conduct).
Their Code of Conduct is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0
license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/), so to comply
with those terms, this document is available under the same CC BY-SA 4.0
license.

DigitalOcean's Code of Conduct and our changes are inspired by several
other publicly available Codes of Conduct, blog posts, and other
resources. Anyone interested in understanding the motivations behind
this document should start by reading these other resources.

- [Introducing DigitalOcean's Engineering Code of Conduct](
https://github.com/digitalocean/engineering-code-of-conduct/blob/master/introduction.md)
- [The Recurse Center's Social Rules](
https://www.recurse.com/manual#sec-environment)
- [Criticism and Ineffective Feedback by Kate Heddleston](
https://kateheddleston.com/blog/criticism-and-ineffective-feedback)
- [Debian Code of Conduct](https://www.debian.org/code_of_conduct)
- [The Rust Code of Conduct](https://www.rust-lang.org/en-US/conduct.html)
